<!-- DO NOT MODIFY                           -->
<!-- this file is generated by mdref         -->
<!-- from ../../src/doc/chapters/commands.md -->

## Commands
<!--- begin variable --->
<!--- end variable --->

Commands provide additional functionality to Markdown files.
All commands use the same basic annotation syntax:

```
{{<name>}{<arg>}...}
```

The following commands are supported:

- [`include`](#include) include content of other file
- [`execute`](#execute) include output of command execution

Inside dedicated command arguments [variables](variables.md) can be used.

### Include

The include command uses the following syntax
<pre>
{{include}{&lt;filepath>}[{[&lt;startline>][:[&lt;endline>]]}]}
{{include}{&lt;filepath>}{&lt;key>}&rcub;
</pre>

this command included content from some file into the actual
markdown file.

It additionally accepts some [filtering a substitution options](#filter-and-substitutions).

### Execute

The execute command uses the following syntax
<pre>
{{execute}{&lt;command>}{&lt;arg>}*}
{{execute}{&lt;command>}{&lt;arg>}*{&lt;extract>}[{[&lt;startline>][:[&lt;endline>]]}]}
{{execute}{&lt;command>}{&lt;arg>}*{&lt;extract>}{&lt;key>}&rcub;
</pre>

The command executes the given command with the given arguments and substitutes
the output. Every command argument is given as separate argument to the *mdref*
command. The directory of the file containing the command expression is used
as current working directory to resolve relative file names.

Optionally the special argument `{<extract>}` can be used to append 
some line selection arguments according to the [`include`](#include) command, line range as well as pattern selection and the optional additional filter argument.

The command in directory [`democmd`](../../democmd/main.go) outputs some
test content:

```
this is a demo file
// --- begin text ---
some demo text
// --- end text ---
this is line 5 of the demo output
and some other text.
```

It can be completely substituted (as shown above) with the command

<pre>
{{execute}{go}{run}{../../../democmd}{text}{some demo text}&rcub;
</pre>

or you can select a dedicated line range with the filter pattern

<pre>
{{execute}{go}{run}{../../../democmd}{text}{some demo text}{&lt;extract>}{text}&rcub;
</pre>

which produces the following output:

```
some demo text
```

A selection by a number range (here just a single line) is possible, also:

<pre>
{{execute}{go}{run}{../../../democmd}{text}{some demo text}{&lt;extract>}{5}&rcub;
</pre>

substitutes line number 5

```
this is line 5 of the demo output
```

## Filter and Substitutions

Both commands, [{{cmd-include}]] and [execute](#execute) accept an optional filter for the
addressed content. Instead of just taking the complete content a subset of the 
lines is used.

### Line-Number based Line Selection

```
...{[<startline>][:[<endline>]]}
```

In this first flavor numbering starts from 1, given start and end line are included.
If omitted the selection starts from the beginning or is taken to the end.

The include command using this option can be used to embed some content
of another file into the
Markdown file, for example
parts of a Go file to provide some documentation consistent with actual
code like in the following example

<pre>
{{include}{../../../patterns.go}{7:11}&rcub;
</pre>

which extracts the regular expressions used
to parse the annotations used by this tool.

```go
var subExp = regexp.MustCompile(`{{{([*]?[A-Za-z][a-z0-9.-]+)}}}`)
var refExp = regexp.MustCompile(`\({{([a-z0-9.-]+)}}\)`)
var lnkExp = regexp.MustCompile(`\[{{([*]?[A-Za-z][a-z0-9.-]*)}}\]`)
var tgtExp = regexp.MustCompile(`{{([a-z][a-z0-9.-]*)(:([a-zA-Z][\p{L}\p{N}- ]+))?}}`)
var cmdExp = regexp.MustCompile(`{{([a-z]+)}((?:{[^}]*})+)}`)
```


### Key-based Line election

```
...{<key>}
```

The problem with line numbers is to keep source and include up-to-date.
If the content changes the line numbers for the selection filter must be adapted.

In the second flavor the content between two lines containing the pattern
`--- begin <key> ---` and `--- end <key> ---` is used instead of using fixed line numbers.
Those pattern pairs MUST occur exactly once. This is more flexible but
requires to prepare the source, for example adding appropriate comments
into a source file.

Let's have a look again at the [include](#include) command.
<pre>
{{include}{../../../cmds.go}{include args}&rcub;
</pre>

extracts the lines between the start and end pattern

```
// --- begin include args ---
var includeExpNum = regexp.MustCompile("^{([^}]+)}(?:{([0-9]+)?(?:(:)([0-9]+)?)?}(?:{([^}]+)}(?:{([^}]+)})?)?)?$")
var includeExpPat = regexp.MustCompile("^{([^}]+)}{([a-zA-Z][a-zA-Z0-9- ]*)}(?:{([^}]+)})?(?:{([^}]+)})?$")

// --- end include args ---
```

Depending on the kind of source an appropriate comment 
syntax can be used for this.
In Java, Go, C or C++ this can then look like

```go
// --- begin include args ---
...
/* --- end include args --- */
```

Or in HTML or markdown it could be

```go
<!--- begin something --->
	...
<!--- end someting --->
```

### Regular expressions

```go
...{<line filter>}{<pattern>}
```
It filters the selected line range by a [regexp pattern](https://pkg.go.dev/regexp).


<!--- begin filter --->
An optional additional such filter argument can be used to specify a
filter regular expression. The selected
file range is matched by this regular expression and
the matched content of the all matches is
concatenated. If the expression uses the multi-line mode, the matches
are suffixed with a newline.
If the expression conitains exactly one capturing group, the matched
content for this group is taken.
<!--- end filter --->

For example, the previous paragraph is directly taken from a comment in the source file
`cmds.go` using this include command:

<!--- begin filter key --->
<pre>
{{include}{../../../cmds.go}{filter}{(?m)^.*// *(.*)$}}
</pre>
<!--- end filter key --->

Even this is directly extracted from this markdown source just by surrounding 
the include command with a line selection filter key.

<pre>
{{include}{commands.md}{filter}}
</pre>

If some special character like `{` or `}` are required
in the regular expression, they must be encoded a HTML entities: for example

- <code>&lcub;</code>: &amp;lcub;
- <code>&rcub;</code>: &amp;rcub;

There are some [standard pattern](terms.md#term-extraction-pattern) defined as part of the *mdref* tool. Additional patterns can be defined with the [`pattern` command](terms.md#pattern-definition).

### Substitution 

By default, the result of a pattern selection is used, If a capturing group
is defined the content of this group instead of the complete match is used.
 But there is also a possibility to compose the used content completely
on capturing groups. If 1 or more groups are used and additional
argument can be used to describe a substitution template.
(for more than one group the template is required)

```
{<line selection>}{<regexp>}{<substitution template>}
```

In the template group variables can be used to refer to the content matched by a capturing group:

- `$<n>`: capturing group `<n>`, where `0` describes the complete match.
- `$<name>`: name of named capturing group.
- `$(<group>)` group number or name
- `$(<group>/<regexp>/<subst>)`: in the content of the described group the occurrences of the given regular expression are replaced by the given template. This template may again refer to capturing groups of the regular expression.

### Omitting a Line Selection


If sub-sequent arguments should be used without
a line filter it is possible to use `{:}` to select
all lines.
