<!-- DO NOT MODIFY                        -->
<!-- this file is generated by mdref      -->
<!-- from ../../src/doc/chapters/terms.md -->

## Terms

Instead of just using an logical anchor as target for a markdown
reference, it may be used as text also. Therefore, it must
be enriched by some text used as *term*.

The term name is an alias for the given text. It can be used to consistently
use some terminology across the complete document
tree defined and changeable at a single place.

### Term Anchors

Anchors for terms are just defined by using the [logical anchor](references.md#anchors) syntax adding a text separated by a colon ( `:`).

For example

<pre>
# My Chapter
{{term:text}&rcub;
</pre>

Like regular logical anchors, a term anchor might be placed anywhere in
a Markdown document, therefore, it is possible to link to any location, 
not only section headers.

Another possibility is to define the term text by some text substitution commands
like [include](commands.md#include) or [execute](commands.md#execute) by preceding those commands 
by `{term}{<term>}`:

  <pre>
  {{term}{&lt;term>}{&lt;cmd>}...}&rcub;
  </pre>

For example the term declaration

<pre>
  {{term}{text}{include}{../../../scan.go}{symbol}{func *([a-zA-Z]+) *\(}&rcub;
</pre>

imports the term value "ParseTerm" from some source file. It is then used by <code>{{{text}}&rcub;</code> to refer to the value in any document of the document tree.

Optionally, formatting options man be given:
- <code>&grave;</code>: format as code
- `*`: format in bold
- `_`: format in italic

For example 

<pre>
  {{term}{`symbol}{include}{../../../scan.go}{symbol}{func *([a-zA-Z]+) *\(}&rcub;
</pre>

defines some code symbol <code>ParseTerm</code>, which is formatted as code.

### Term Usage

Term anchors may be used as usual for regular references, also.
But there are two additional use cases:
- Usage as link labeled with the term text.
  In this case the [logical reference](references.md) appears inside the `[]` pair
  of a markdown reference, but without the target part, which is automatically inserted from the term anchor:

  <pre>
  A [{{&lt;name>}}] is a ....
  </pre>

  Such a reference is called *term reference*. It refers to an
  anchor providing an additional text. This term reference is substituted by a complete link for the term text and the term reference.

- Just as text without any hyperlink. In this case the [logical reference](references.md) appears inside a `{}` pair:

  <pre>
  A {{{&lt;name>}}} is a ....
  </pre>

### Term Substitution Flavors

There are several flavors for using a term:
- The term text is used as given
- The term text is converted into its plural form. Here, the name is preceded by an asterisk (`*`). For example <code>[{{*term}&rcub;]</code>.
- The term text should be capitalized, for example if used as first word in a sentence. Here the first letter of the name is taken in upper case, for example <code>[{{Term}&rcub;]</code>.
- If the plural form as well as upper case should be substituted, both mechanisms can be combined, like in <code>[{{*Term}&rcub;]</code>

### Term Extraction Pattern

The extraction filter for [include](commands.md#include) and [execute](commands.md#execute) are using 
regular expressions. This has been used to extract term text assignments directly from
the source base.

To simplify this, *mdref* supports some standard patterns, which can be specified by name instead of a regular expression.

- <code>go-const</code>: the name of a Go constant (<code>&#34;(?m)^\\s&ast;const +([&lowbar;a-zA-Z]+) &ast;= &ast;&#34;</code>)
- <code>go-const-value</code>: the value of a Go constant (<code>&#34;(?m)^\\s&ast;const +[&lowbar;a-zA-Z]+ &ast;= &ast;(.&ast;)\n&#34;</code>)
- <code>go-var</code>: the name of a Go variable (<code>&#34;(?m)^\\s&ast;var +([&lowbar;a-zA-Z]+) &ast;= &ast;&#34;</code>)
- <code>go-type</code>: the name of a Go type (<code>&#34;(?m)^\\s&ast;([&lowbar;a-zA-Z]+) &ast;(?:struct|func|interface|\\[|=)&#34;</code>)
- <code>go-func</code>: the name of a Go function (<code>&#34;(?m)^\\s&ast;func\\s+(?:\\(\\s&ast;\\w+\\s+[\\w&ast;]+\\s&ast;\\)\\s+)?(\\w+)&#34;</code>)

### Other Patterns

There are also other useful patterns, like:

<!--- begin other patterns --->
- <code>go-line-comment</code>:  (<code>&#34;(?m)^\\s&ast;//\\s&ast;(.&ast;)\n&#34;</code>)
  extract comment text from a Go source file using line comment syntax.
- <code>go-comment</code>:  (<code>&#34;/\\&ast;\\s&ast;([^&ast;]&ast;(?:\\&ast;+[^/][^&ast;]&ast;)&ast;)\\s&ast;\\&ast;/&#34;</code>)
  extract comment text from a Go source file using standard comment syntax.
   It does not support the exclusion of comment lines starting with ` *`.
- <code>html-comment</code>:  (<code>&#34;&lt;!--+\\s&ast;([\\s\\S]&ast;?)\\s&ast;-+-&gt;&#34;</code>)
  extract HTML comment.

This complete list is generated by 
<pre>
{{term}{`go-line-comment}{include}{../../../patterns.go}{go-line-comment}{go-const}{$(1/_/-)}}
{{term}{`go-line-comment-value}{include}{../../../patterns.go}{go-line-comment}{go-const-value}}
- {{{go-line-comment}}}:  ({{{go-line-comment-value}}})
  {{include}{../../../patterns.go}{go-line-comment}{go-line-comment}}
{{term}{`go-comment}{include}{../../../patterns.go}{go-comment}{go-const}{$(1/_/-)}}
{{term}{`go-comment-value}{include}{../../../patterns.go}{go-comment}{go-const-value}}
- {{{go-comment}}}:  ({{{go-comment-value}}})
  {{include}{../../../patterns.go}{go-comment}{go-comment}}
{{term}{`html-comment}{include}{../../../patterns.go}{html-comment}{go-const}{$(1/_/-)}}
{{term}{`html-comment-value}{include}{../../../patterns.go}{html-comment}{go-const-value}}
- {{{html-comment}}}:  ({{{html-comment-value}}})
  {{include}{../../../patterns.go}{html-comment}{html-comment}}

This complete list is generated by 
<pre>
{{include}{terms.md}{other patterns}}
</pre>
</pre>
<!--- end other patterns --->

surrounded by the key selector for `other patterns`.

### Pattern Definition

With the `pattern` command patterns can be created as part of the document tree.

For example
```text
{{pattern}{my-pattern}{(?m)^.*content: ?(.*)$}}
```
defines a new pattern. It is used here with

```
{{include}{_definitions.md}{content}{my-pattern}&rcub;
```

to provide the following result:

```
this is some test content
provided by a definition file.
```

The pattern and the content are defined in a file `_definitions.md`, which is evaluated but not
generated into the target folder.

```
Here we define some new pattern

<!--- begin pattern --->
{{pattern}{my-pattern}{(?m)^.*content: ?(.*)$}}
<!--- end pattern --->

and define some match for it:

<!--- begin content --->
Only the prefixed content will be matched by 
the pattern defined above:
content: this is some test content
content: provided by a definition file.
<!--- end content --->
	
{{variable}{root}{../../..}}
```